it's me Destin welcome back to smarter
every day so a couple of weeks ago I
asked a question here on smarter every
day in hopes it would be beamed up to
the space station so the astronauts
could answer well that happened why do
we take the next question on YouTube I'm
Destin from Huntsville Alabama this is
sandy and spot C on the International
Space Station if you're free falling in
one position without touching anything
with no spin is it possible to wiggle in
such a way that you're able to rotate to
a different angular position and then
stop on smarter every day we
demonstrated this with a high-speed
camera and a cat who is a non holonomic
system and can do this by extending his
legs arching his back and twisting in a
very specific pattern so can humans do
this on orbit you want to say hey to the
astronauts oh thank you we look up to
you guys okay well that's a great
question we don't have any cats on board
but we have a medical doctor who maybe
can try to demonstrate that yeah next
best thing to a cat so he's going to try
to demonstrate for you yes indeed you
can you can do this so he's going to get
out here and stop himself in an open
space and he's going to show you how he
can turn himself around so he he can't
change his angular momentum but he can
change his body position and move
himself to a noreagaaa orientation so I
hope you believe that what you saw
happen with the cat isn't a mystery and
that it can happen in space too great
question so needless to say I'm very
excited about how this went down Sadie
has one more question by the way what's
your question warranty not have a cat on
board so one day I hope to do research
on the International Space Station
myself so I thought it'd be pretty cool
if I took a time hat and figured out
exactly where the guys were when we were
talking turns out when they started
listening to my question they were over
the top of Ecuador and in the 70 seconds
that we talked they buzzed across the
equator over Peru which is cool because
I spend a lot of time in Peru and into
Colombia I also thought it was pretty
cool that after they answered the
question you can see Chris Hadfield over
to the side you can see the gears
turning in his head and I think when the
camera started flipping off he started
doing a little test himself he thinks
like me he wants to figure things out
which is good to have people like that
on the space station you heard me say
that I look up to you but I'm not trying
to be funny or anything like that I
actually do watch the International
Space Station pass over my house the
tool I use is heavens - above comm you
can
and you can enter where your house is
and it'll tell you the next times that
the ISS is going to pass overhead it's
really awesome
even tells you where to look anyway so I
recommend going to do that but warning
if you do that you're going to have to
turn your computer off and walk outside
the house and actually observe some real
science so maybe you should do that so
I'd like to leave you with this you are
bound on the earth like I am but there
is a human that is ambassador for you in
a weightless environment up on the
International Space Station and he
tweets every day all you have to do is
follow these guys they're up there
they're going to pipe down pictures that
they take every day and they're really
interesting all you have to do is not be
lazy and go look at what they're doing
it's really cool also you should follow
NASA they have good stuff every day for
some reason if you want to follow a less
interesting guy
I'm right here feel free to look at my
stuff as well anyway I'm Destin you get
smarter every day that was awesome
have a good one